		“But first, the birds, which call in equal parts,
		That sound all foreign born and other-worldly
		Who breach the utter dark and rolling chaos
		To form and function, bleating, hollering hulk
		Of animated meat in flight and in repose.
		Surrounded by syringes buzzing out
		The darkness gives to grey envelopment
		WHich rolls across a morning's dewy air
		And shrouds the denizens of our terrain
		In misty mystery, which well explains
		The myriads of calls, all strange, all queer
		And set apart from one another like
		Discrete collapsing waves which pound the shore.
		a cacophony of noise in splendid droning
		that soon permits itself to humming glows
		of dark and saturated greens galore,
		This jungle thrives with life amongst the leaves
		And shimmers bright as if electric light
		Coursed through the chutes and veins as water does,
		sucked from the Earth, received from fluffy whites,
		eternal cycle which floods the world with beings,
		Who now react in the morning fog to sound
		As alien to green and wooded thickets
		As Martian languages might be to us,
		It quickly fills the air with riotous pounding
		And rouses apes and monkeys to attention
		Before it crashes through the foliage
		A doleful train of blackened steel and fire,
		WIthout a track, it runs on through the heart
		of lush, wet paradise, and hauling cars
		Completely filled with God knows what inside.”
	‘So spoke disheveled beard and holy brow,
	presenting jazz for jazz-less lesser beings
	who know not Bird from Coltrane, nor the words
	of There Will Never Be Another You
	committed, once, to memory in hopes\
	the phrasing might reveal a newer line
	and elevate a man to higher planes.
	but they would know the less of that, these folks,
	who sat slack-jawed and voiceless like a mouse
	while i laid sonorous God before their feet.’
he snickered at the image painted so,
and asked of Athens, music's presence there,
	'Of jazz, it lacks the educated crowd,
	they much prefer the psychedelic sound
	and those young blokes in shorts and collared shirts
	will only care for things that might attract
	the young and prey-like schools of college girls
	who flutter down the brick and mortar streets
	from bar to bar, in search of virile men –
	though I know not what might be found in bars
	but thick and frothy beers to aid the soul
	'tis not the people I admire in it
	but sure, the scene exists, and rolls along
	just as it has for some odd years of bland
	interminable rock of curly hair and pedals
	which grow and grow at player's shaky feet
	'til one assumes the band becomes a switch
	which powers on at gig’s beginning time
	and stows away in some latched case at night
	to be delivered to the next town over.'
As we meandered under leafy palms,
I regaled my friend of stories had in the drunk
And misremembered haze of bottled youth,
from the small and feeble minds of 'History of Jazz'
to the shocking tales of Lycergic overdose
which left a man, of sorts, so deaf and dumb
such that he knew not where he normally lived
and knocked unlucky doors in search of home.
While Martin told of grinding misery
of schlepping gear in heat from gig to gig
and all for pittance wage, an afterthought
which raises questions in his mind of why,
and why continue in this line of work
if jazz itself declines in status, pay
and priceless cultural significance?
We neared the music school’s allotted plot,
This place I’d dreamed about incessantly,
And contemplated long the paths we walked
So recognized the quick and new additions
Erected after my ignoble end.
We entered on the plaza which remained
And Martin raised his hand to the sky and said,
	‘They said they’d renovate the old Assembly…
	But time has come and went and they forgot,
	And built instead this other structure, here,
	Connected by a bridge between the two.
	And that’s where all instructors make their homes,
	You won’t be finding them amongst the students.
	I feel as if this is a loss, of sorts,
	Camaraderie and all, where bumps were had,
	Between the classes we were prone to meet
	It made the place feel lively, lived in and on,
	Or so that’s what I had believed, but lo,
	The school is different now and powers forwards,
	Tis not exclusive like the way it was
	I marvel now at who they let inside.’
And I to him, in disbelief of him,
	‘Inclusive! Shock! You jest or muck about,
	Who knows of firm and ready banishment
	But the club of clubs? The school of schools? The mountain!
	Don’t tell me Peter, man of many things
	Diluted skill for commerce, passion for pay.
	He must be mad, or going mad, that’s all,’
But Martin shook his head and sighed distraught,
	‘It’s not for Peter to decide these things,
	The higher-ups decided, forced them out,
	And brought the school a softer tone of voice.’
and I, amazed and startled, bit my lip,
	'I'd thought of going in and causing stir,
	To make them all aware of my return,
		"And how are you this fine september day?"
	I'd fantasized a muddled homely acting
		"Why yes, it's you! How are you, friend? How's things?
		We'd fretted over you, and here you are!
		It is so good to hear from-- well-- from all
		our students, no matter where they've gone and hid!"
	And I could grin and bear just that amount,
	Before I humbly shrink away again.
	How grand to be a conversation, here,
	Once more about the tongues of learned men.'
But Martin made no quick reply to me,
We watched as children, as young as we had been,
Piled out from doors of past renown and ache
Within their hands the various tools of trade
Or torture, lifeless ‘til us makers make,
These siphons bringing out our inner selves,
And baring minds before a vacant crowd
Who judge our dreams and boundless monuments
Who pick and choose like army generals
Who digs the trench and fills the squad’s canteens 
Or else who lives and dies; Martin speaks up:
	‘I must admit, my friend, I was dismayed
	‘When you advised that you were leaving here.
	I felt a loss which lingered ever on
	As though a type of plant had gone extinct
	Unnoticed by this noxious, gruesome world
	Which stamps its boots on those unorthodox.’
I looked aside to my compatriot,
Divining mood and motive in his words,
Which border flattery as well as grief,
And felt a pit within which tamed a joke,
For I am not a one so versed in warmth
That first I thought he might be telling lies…
	‘I’ve drawn the map of here as it was then,
	And weighed the mass of heads and bodies thrice,
	No player comes out clean from toxic fumes
	‘Cept you and you alone. I leave the rest    
	To their dilemmas, bastardizing pride,
	And weak and sober stomachs fraught with oil.
	You were a foxhole friend in traitorous times.
	I won’t require a larger slice of Brie
	For I’ve received a pirate’s buried share.’
The air which teemed with life and friendly laughter
Just moments prior did fall into a silence
As we, the older strangers, shuffled past
the haunting image of our former selves.
But from the quietness there came a sound
An irritating run of scales or etudes
That rang from down the path where stood a man
Who held to his lips the brass of his trombone
And publicly he played for all to hear.
Martin began: ‘I never did possess
	the courage or the fortitude of will
	to play outside these halls in simple tones
	Announce to those in transit, Or perform
	In exhibition pose, for everyone,
	When I imagine it I cringe and whine,
	Embarrassed by the boldness it reveals.’
Glissandos rose and fell in E, then B.
	I spoke, 'Is this from courage? You forget,
	My one and only friend, twas I that played
	And sang as well, like some bizarre and poor
	homage to drifting carnivals of clowns,
	I might have thrown a ratty hat below,
	And scrawled a sign in charcoal lines, "Look here!"
		"Behold the tricksy man of linen songs,
		He sings to all and none, he plays for joy,
		He stomachs foolish grins and lonely nights,
		For when you leave the dorm for social mass,
		He plays you out, to tunes you know and love,
		And when you stumble back from disappointment,
		He greets you like the painful throb of morning,
		Please drop a chunk of change or sit and laugh,
		He knows so little of this way of life."
	How marvelous to be so unaware!
	And dangerous the coming storm for him,
	I've learned that courage is just innocence.
	Stupidity, perhaps, but not a virtue,
	I won not one award for stubborn guts
	And reaped an excess cornucopia
	Of shame and loathing. This poor fool who sounds
	His horn like men of Rohan on the fields
	Does breathe, and in his breaths he takes the gas
	That could be used for higher things. To think!
	The poor befuddled plant that works for him,
	To make his air and clean his carbon exhaust,
	And this is all he does with such fine gifts.'
My proven pal did laugh again as we
drew near the tall and bunkered dorm room buildings
Which once upon a time had housed me well.
The room from which I'd watched the meager creatures
that populate these grounds run hither, thither
now loomed above my person like an anvil
and threatened to invoke the memories
of washed acidic aching which lingered still
No matter how I'd tried to drown the noise.
	'We're standing at the spot where I and him,
	In boyish jovial miscreancy, threw
	A filled balloon right off the staircase walk,
	And down it fell the hundred feet or so,
	A missile, made of dense and heavy stuff,
	where came a boy commuting to or from,
	and holding papers sure of some import,
	the two collided, bubble burst apart,
	And we, the cowards that we are, ducked down
	And never spoke a word of it again.'
And Martin paused and looked up high and thought,
Of speeds and physics, weight and gravity
	'Did you intend to peg the man below?'
And I to him, 'I don't remember such,'
	We lobbed it high and watched, and I expect,
	We expected it to hit the ground and splash.
	Though hitting him was not our first intent,
	Suppose that doesn't matter, in moral sense,
	We acted with a reckless disregard
	For life and limb, for freedom and the law,
	Or worse, a common courtesy to others
	I wonder if the boy believed himself
	The butt of some sadistic scheming cult
	Which hated him, despised the boy he was
	And doomed his lot to soggy underwear,
	A day's embarrassment, and ruined work.'
And Martin blinked at all the talk of woe.
	'You got to let it go, my friend, my man,
	Ten years have passed, you meant no lasting harm,
	A moment's drench is not immortal pain!
	To listen to your words, the garden's toast,
	And never will it grow or bloom again.'
And on our right, as ever was and is
the intramural meadow overgrown
Bikini'd babes rubbed tan and cooking skin
with oil and creams to keep the burns away.
	'Do you remember the girl that ran these fields?
	So tall and lovely, legs as long as trunks
	Who pranced like a bold gazelle while we would gaze,
	I recollect a friend did criticize
	Her gait for bouncing like a slinky does,
	Was sure she'd rue the days she spent in motion
	Foreseeing harm to come on joints or bones,
	All men are experts when a woman lives.
	I s'pose you're right, my friend, I mourn too long,
	I think on small effects and poison dreams.
	In truth, there were some greater crimes committed
	Than immaturity can long support.
	I saw the house in coming here today,
	That loathsome quarters I was drawn to then.
	I don't know yet what I expected, there
	The lawn was freshly mown and windows clean
	The whimsy little lamp which hung out front
	Did creak and bellow as I passed the yard.
	I thought to knock and introduce myself,
	As warmly as I could, my name and face.
	But they would think it strange, I think, I know...
	And technically I never lived within,
	Just spent deluded nights with raucous souls
	And never ending streams of adult candies.
	In many ways I own that house outright,
	In perpetuity that deed is mine.
	He called some time ago to make amends.
	Apologize, or something, I don't know.
	But not unprompted. I am sure, by others
	The many who watched and scrunched their faces in
	As I began to fall from grace and glory.
	Who looked to quick and futile places for
	A virgin they could dirty with their guilt.
	I cut them all from me like cancerous growths
	Declared their lives to be both null and void.
	As they had all designed to do to me.
	My friend, I walk with you through killing fields.
	I'm most surprised I haven't lost my place.'
Beside the lake, and under swooping trees,'
We sat beneath the towers rated strong
Against the prophesied, predictable
Storms of a warming planet ripe for ruin.
And there we sat discussing life lived after
For him it was the angling uncertainties
Of improvisation; not of notes or rhythms
But free provided meals to hired hands,
To names and contacts misremembered,
The openings and closings of the clubs,
And flying nation-wide to small hotels
To play a wedding where the happiness
Of others drains the soul of hope and solace.
But he assured me he had changed as well,
	‘No more neuroticism!’ he advised.
	‘And with the women I’m so more the man
	Than when you last took in my shoddy form.
	Though gigs are gigs and people fantasize
	About musicians, so, I ride the wave.
	Though jazz is few and far between, these days.
	Tomorrow I will stand alone again
	With computer backing tracks, to wail in place
	Like some odd drifter, in a mall, my friend,
	And glad I am to take the chance because
	I wish to buy a house somewhere, sometime.
	Though prices soar at present, I aspire,
	And wonder if I’ll leave this busy city
	To seek a better place to live and work.
	I’ve always lived beneath the coconuts
	Perhaps I might prefer a colder climate.’
And I, ‘A chill might do the world some good,
	Though where to go that values you beyond
	These hallowed watercolor streets beats me.
	New York, it seems, could be the only place
	Where jazz remains a pillar cut from marble
	And opportunities abound for pay
	Though I am ignorant on this, you know.
	I quit the game entirely, it hurts to play.
	Like putting on a jacket made of needles
	And dancing square for buck-toothed children's joy.
	It took me many years to learn to play,
	And many many more to learn to stop.
	But I admire tenacious bawdy gumption
	Which you and all the rest have shown in deed
	To carry forward dead and dying arts
	Is purpose-driven living the likes of which
	I’ve long farewell-ed. Do you still speak to them?
	The others of our class who dreamed of fame
	And fortune? Wished themselves influencers
	Of music, art, and zeitgeist? Where are they?
	If outward promise were to be believed,
	We’d all become Beyonce’s peers in passion!'
He scoffed and rolled his eyes at my directness,
	‘Well, some of us did not believe in lies,
	Nor wished for great resounding dreams of wealth,
	And are the more contented when we play
	To rooms which talk above our blissful phrases.
I laughed at him, ‘Oh yes, my friend, I know,’  
	For theirs are much important party favors
	Au naturale - who learned to speak as babes
	And spend their days replaying bits and pieces
	Exchanging verbs for nouns and all the rest
	To better lobby up or down or sideways.
	And all the while we croon a language learned
	That speaks to them across all dialects.
He shook his head, ‘There are a few who stayed,’
	Hernando spoke to me some days ago.
	He cursed the ones who taught the best of us,
		“These fools at work in music schools who judge,
		Judge not in wisdom nor in honored ways,
		Who plays the best of places now? Your pets?
		Or me who beats my drums in concert halls?”    
	Tis not just you that holds a schoolboys grudge,
	We all were banged about the head in here,
	Though I insist it made us better,
	At least, in my experience it did,
	Though you may have a different sight on things,
I sighed, abuse is not a revelation,
	I fear that all it’s done is locked us in
	Perpetuating tiers of angry thumps
	In the name of jazz, initiating youth
	To cycle after cycle. Art is pain,
	The great are greatly rude, and on and on,
	The character of my disrupted time
	Was not a hard and fast dismemberment,
	But slowly draining hope and disappointment
	Did I relate what Peter said to me
	The day of flight? I’d just been out the ward,
	And played that gig right there along the patio.
	My father tried to have me leave at once,
	But I insisted that I stay and play,
	For sake of all relying on this man,
	The wretch, the one who sits before you now
	I knew I couldn’t leave them all without
	And prove them right that I deserved no grace.
	And Peter came to me at closing time,
		And said, why MOYNAHAN, you’ve earned yourself
		My due respect, as much as that is worth,
		And will you be available for gigs?
		How soon? And when? And we could use your touch.
	And I said no, It can’t be helped, I’m gone.
		This city’s taken all that I brought in,
		And penniless I leave, farewell, goodbye,
	Bizarre, my friend, bizarre, that I was wanted
	Finally wanted by the man above,
	As if I’d finally learned the truth of things.
	It took collapsing inward on myself
	The vaunted weight of scholarship and dues,
	The expectations of the small town folks
	And more, my own demented prideful mind
	A decade have I spent in reminiscence.
	Of times that hang above me like mathematics
	Defining me as who I was back then.
	Now trauma is a trendy useless word
	That bears the sign of Broadway martyrs
	And comes to life in minute clips of mush
	And pamphlets ask the questions one avoids.
	Just what on Earth was jazz to do with it?
But Martin said nothing, and watched the ducks with me
The ugly things that swarmed the banks of the lake,
With great disfigured beaks and fleshy growths,
Who quacked the same, and waddled the same, and floated
And then our mascot’s long and orange legs
THat stride the water searching for a meal
Did join the waterfowl we gazed upon
No zoo or natural history museum
Could plan more picturesque inhabitants
For talk of human suffering and worthless pain.
	‘I spoke to Bill as well,’ said Martin, low.
	‘Complains, he does, on life, and everything.
	He hates his life, he says, just hates it square.
	Opines the lack of money makes him sour.’
I shook my head, ‘You wouldn’t know such things
	From online posts and albums made and sold…
	I’d half the mind to tell him I was jealous,
	So envious of hustling bustling Bill
	Who lives and works in the Big Lovely Apple
	Where rom-coms set the stage for endless meet cutes.
	I won’t believe that he is miserable.
	It simply can’t be understood, my friend.
He said, 'They say the grass is greener down the way,
	As we get older, turns of phrase turn truer.
	I'm sad to hear you've lost the will to play.
	This world will grieve that loss in time enough.
I threw a piece of bark into the lake.
	'When I got home I drank the cupboards empty,
	And lectured friends the benefits to death,
	When Johnny Law arrived to ascertain
	The whos and whys... or maybe they just heard 
	That raucous man, that Moynahan is back!
	And faced with my irreverence for them
	Their fake concern for my own drunken 'welfare'
	They tazered me and cuffed my hands behind,
	And took me screaming to the hospital.
	Where soon I writhed in fiendish tumult, friend
	A madman tuned to devilish radio waves
	And cursed the orderlies to hellish tortures 
	But mostly talked to them as if they were
	of small and homely minds, and criticized 
	their education, for mine was mighty redwood 
	compared to nurses gathered from the locals.
	A decade later I still use the place 
	When doctors need of blood and illness comes 
	I don't remember faces all too well,
	But every now and then I get the feeling 
	They know exactly who I am inside,
	A petulant and cursing roach of misery.
And Martin moved to speak, but I continued,
	'But that is not the half of it, my friend,
	For they returned! These monstrous evil men
	Who brought not law and order to my mind
	But painful shocks as punishment for brashness
	They let me go as recompense for sadism
	But they returned, at night and wiser still
	FOr now they cuffed me right away instead,
	And led me down the driveway to the car
	Where I leaned back and spit upon the face
	Which held my arm, but not the pig who fired
	those engineered medieval torture darts 
	Which plunged themselves inside my innocent skin,
	I spit upon the one who'd stood and watched
	Who'd failed to heel the dog to legal acts,
	Who'd stood in silence whilst his eyes imbibed		
	in twitching moaning agonizing pain of 'justice...'
	This angered them, my spittle on the pig
	Who, unlike me, did not deserve such things!
	But now I'd breached decorum, broke the law!
	And with his ass so covered, pig's delight,
	He hurled me forwards to the tarry road
	I landed face to gravel like a cheese
	That sheds to pieces on the grater's edge.
	It's him to thank for this bedeviling scar
	which plagues my features still, his sentence lived.
	And there I screamed and rolled around in blood
	My family watched as I did wail and shout
	and laugh and taunt, 'He broke my nose!' face-down,
	The neighbor's lights came on in search of meaning,
	The cul-de-sac became a coliseum
	By which the audience was forced to know
	the stain that gathers underneath the bleachers.
	They took me to the jail for this low crime
	And locked me in a padded cell of black
	And bumpy rubber, wearing safety briefs.
	I dreamt of nothing, woke expecting home,
	For what had happened to me smacks of visions
	Or half-remembered ghouls that haunt a slumber.
	Now look how beautiful this scene remains,
	How pristine the campus is for all to see.
	I wondered in captivity if this,
	This place, and all these people I'd forget,
	And all of my dramatic perilous times
	would be replaced with blackened rubber walls
	For who would think this wretched soul in stitches
	Who shivers in the dark for want of clothes
	Could once have held the world upon his shouders?
	O, how unlike the place from whence he fell!
how martins features coldly slipped to sadness
and gazed at me in disbelief of things…
until the lanky fissure bright on my lip
put rest inquisitive and questioning doubts,
as if my hands shown light through center’s punch
And he were Thomas all the while, but no,
i raise myself to think in gloried robes
my sufferings were clothed, and not in filth,
invading me and turning what was once
a mannered child to hellish personal flaws.
	am i the first to hear this tale? he asked.
	of all our friends, the past and present, too?
	i feel it wash across my spine and skin
	and hold the matter chilling, none should be
	dis-owned of dignity and place like this.
i smiled, i tell to all who might inquire
	and some i force to hear, so they might know
	a world beyond their whimsied games of chance
	or less, i minge and whine at every corner,
	when horrors shock no moral man today,
	who hasn't heard the countless dramas told
	by generational traumatic stones
	that cross the plane of our existence fast
	and peg each woman, man, and child anew?
	so even though a trauma, nothing plays…
		‘how can you say you were abused when you
		did court and manage it as a delivery?
		and you did wrong and what did you expect
		and count your blessings you were not put down,
		for even in your lowest days you held
		a card of alabaster whiteness, fool.’
	well so, perhaps, perhaps, i see, i see.
   	A man is judged by winds of frenzied change,
   	And action lives confined within its context
   	But questions still perplex the ones involved,
   	And still I wonder what it is I wanted.
   	For I remember less of fatalism
   	Than rough and ready stomping hooves of bulls
   	Who brew themselves to angry fits of passion.
   	I was a child when I first saw a bison,
   	A majesty of creatures and American
   	But I, the brute, immediately did buck
   	And taunt the thing to charge at me for sport,
   	When soon the adults whisked me free from sin
   	And scolded me for arrogance displayed.
   	And I, myself, don't feel a shred of pity
   	For matadors in gilded suits of lights
   	When unintended blood pervades the soil.
   	I cheer the opposite tradition where
   	The dumb and bloated animal prevails.
   	So raptured are the masses with a tale
   	That pits the virtuous against the vile
   	But I had lost all sense of right and wrong
   	And thenceforth wandered dirty and forlorn
   	within the space betwixt a victim's cry
   	and all of Lucifer's delights of sadism
   	Which, rest assured, have more in common than
   	Polite interpretations might reveal.
   	I've done a share of bad as well as good,
   	And tortured those who'd not deserved a scold
   	I am an acolyte of human cruelty.
   	If only they had killed me when they could!
   	The tragedy avoided, life could move
   	With haste to higher goals and lofty aims.
   	For I have sought to lower Men, defile
   	Women, if nothing else, dispense my pain
   	amongst the poor and preening populace.
   	unlucky folks who ran across a louse
   	and soon regretted any sympathy
   	they might have had for poisoned manic minds.
Martin, disciple, held his tongue throughout,
But listened hard upon the broken words
Which streamed so easily from me, his friend,
Who now looked awfully strange compared to his
remembered bastion, standing tall amongst
corrupting social games and teacher's errs.
And thought to himself profane and taboo things,
Twas Moynahan who called out spades for spades,	
When faced with royals, thrashed their vanity
With lovely loathsome words, and laughed for days
At homely taste authorities who wished
to raise a mighty church to jazz, the art,
And stock the walls with works of the chosen few
Who grace the fatty lords with p's and q's
Who pay their dues in papyrus or plastic
Or greasy handshakes known to all who chew
the fat of low irrelevance and shame.
A school of schools! Twas not a lack of talent
That threw his funny cowboy boots to pasture.
Naive in a deadly game of politics,
Twas Moynahan who cast the light of farce
Upon a school, so-called, which taught no fools
Whose attitude did not align with theirs! 
For art was never art without these lies
Against the lie, he walked alone in crying,
Unwell, unfit, unloved, nor well-to-do
But his beliefs for good or ill remained
And looming, colored all the memories
a tinge of bright citrine, like legends told,
where men aren't men but now become their words,
personifying thoughts and possible futures
as if the past were only dreams of present.
But now, ambition's husk was sat beside,
And all the gloss of young potential lost,
He saw his friend depleted like a well.
	I know not what you've done nor whom you've harmed
	Nor does it matter much to me mistakes you've made
	I haven't seen your name broadcast to all:
		Tonight, the scoop, Beware the jazzy killer!
		He plays the standards whilst he goes beheading,
		DJs are next in line for death and torture
		And all around bemoan, What took so long?
	I won't defend your every breath and word
	Nor all your actions, but, so goes the world!
	We move, careening round and round like balls
	On life's great pin-machine that gives no extras
	Or replays, or bonuses, or savers. Rewards and glories
	Come not to those deserving most, and neither do
	The pains and sufferings you've long endured.
	I'd trade a hundred vapid monster players
	For one destructive Moynahan to know.
	Your worth is not defined by others' thoughts,
	And I'd have thought that you of all of us
	Would not be so deterred, opinion-wise.
	Though maybe I remember you above
	The human that you are. Do you recall
	The words you said to me a-casually
	Along the frantic rush between our classes?
   	
  


