the fragrance of the Beats exudes from me
hum drum and oily skin out on the prowl
for famished want of grim attentive souls
to bleat on words like addicted French auteurs
or snaps on stage and off, the heat of day
makes wholesome all the primitive delights
of beer and coffee, tasty cigarettes
who kill for killings' sake, our moods align
on solitary reminiscences
in which the harbored grudge dis-plays intent;
plight of a dirty hobo singing the blues
d'you see that movie made for Dylan's pride?
in which he claims his childhood was a match
to a homeless drifting black and Southern boy
who climbs aboard a boxcar day by day
and talks as if the Lord had struck him dumb
with half-believin' Southward turns of phrase
no never heard no nonsense drip out these mouths
sick as a terrible actor, Praise the Lord;
inhaling toxic fumes is well enough,
but self-destruction bears a meager sum,
a dowry not inhibited by thought
or rationed care, they gave me cigarettes
down there, inside the hospital's crescendo,
where all did stomp and puff and wander left
of center, ever drifting, pointless, free,
confined, and lacking basic hygiene, asking
for scraps of shredded leaves infused with tar
you might begin to think I disapprove,
but cigarettes are comforts to the mad
who lack the strength to overcome an itch
when every hall they walk encircles them;
the coffeeshop sits square along the main
and wooden doors invite the den of words
where rain might trap a man in deadly beans;
which autumn brought us pumpkin spice and health?
I go by foot inside the volleyed ceiling
brushing past the sweaters shielding lame
demented place - so white, this city, pale,
and growing paler, 




what guilt should be dispensed at your behest,
whose manifest of raw delusion shares
the world around, and likens me to wolves,
or lesser crawling things on scattering legs?
whose schemas burden me with longing pores,
and who, by all accounts, knows less of grace
than any ribbon cutting school-girl boiled
alive with tits on hooks and severed tongue.
No, in a million ways, I feel no weight
Of moral wrongs that you may yet describe.
Tis a God which robs the smaller sex.
and tis a God which blunted me with violence,
who bruised and fashioned lies of moral faith
in which to hang the ever sickly-ill
upon a cross of whitened straightened teeth
And pretty there my body moves about
with windy changes, lovely thoughts, and urine
that runs from crotch to crucifix, while balding
enraged, indecent liars tell their fables
in town after town, community of dolts
who know so well the hearts of men like me.
You low and succor'd rat of dismal grunts,
I'd spit on you if had the chance to tilt
your life to darker habits. Prime of life,
an ape distinctly moves aloof of Heav'n.
I hate the lot of you and wish that I'd
been born without the foggy comprehension 
that we alone inherited from dust.
I only wish to be alone, these days.
Without the lumps of coal you hurl at me,
Without the friendships crusted o'er with ash.
Go plan your marriages and leave me be.
