'Is he released? For good or good behavior?
Or is he 'scaped? No jail can hold the Man,
Who lives beyond our means to live and work,
And now returns to us the lower people.
From out of duty, custom, or malaise?
We might divine an answer by lots or cards
Tis true that none can say his starry aims,
But glad we are of his decisive choice
For we are lost without his talent's mast
That, missing, threatens all mobility.'
So spoke the man in charge of our small group,
Eliciting some laughs from those at work
Who wheel the wooden racks of bars and chimes
To planned positions, front and center stage,
Whilst others pull the painted mat to taut
And place their drums at points prescribed to start.
'Has he been muted by this brush with power?
Has he been vexed, or called to account his crimes?
What of his bold upheaval stance on life?
He wears his badge today, identified
To all who might inquire his name or his rank.'
And I, 'My morbid sense of life and place
Accomodates this ignorance and shame
As merely trappings or the ornaments
Of psyches pre-disposed to spreading sheets,
who lack the words to label ham or beef
revolting sacrificial epithets.
I walk today as testament to Them,
To Them who make a man to dance a jig
In hopes the rain might roll on in to town.
What does it matter in the stony end
If I'm adorned with false procedural charms?
'Twas wrong expecting reason from machines.'
'If only all could be so wise, young man,'
Said he, the teacher, handing me a chart.
'I've changed a few disruptive and boring bars,
Though all works out the same by ending's bells.
And have you thought on my proposal, too?
Or has the day wrung out your patient mind
To happy laziness and hedonism?'
'I will accept the deal if all required
Is presence of body, not of thinking or thought,
This game is my profession, stews of spirits
Will not be moving my beliefs, my gods,
The lack thereof, the empty sterling pot
That is all godly things in my design,
My constellation marking real from false,
My tense distrust of all who claim to know
What lurks beyond the great and stormy seas.
And I could use the extra cash right now.'
He smiled again to my receptive tone,
Our leader and our benefactor clapped his hands
To gather us together as a mass
Of penguins huddled close in secret style,
To preach a small encouragement to us
Before our long rehearsal saps our strength
Or engenders talk of mutinous intent.
