'How goes the female mind in losing you?
Or yours in losing her, this youthful love
Which grew despite the obvious deterrent?'
He spoke on us as if he'd known us long,
For mighty days, and marked the time with sighs
Of young ideals opposed by life itself.
I shut my trunk and hitched my bass to stern.
The two of us were stood aside the church
which he attended, which now ingurgitated
My time and effort by way of offered cash.
I looked to Paul with cynical reproach,
'We will remain apart as we have lived,
though tis no concern of yours or any others,
Who wonder loud the wisdom found in love
Or what could be described when objects stick
to one another, in spite of dim misfortune...
But if you must have curiosity
About the inner worlds of teenage girls
She takes it all as God's opaque desire,
And prays to Him above that paths will curl
And turn their treading occupants to tail.
Or by divine design, she trusts in wild
Incalculable procession to an end
Where I am much transfigured by a world
Which she already clearly understands.
For who knows more of life than Christian girls
Raised in a firm but loving household, cherished,
Who made a mission to convert this beast
Who stands before you now, and, having failed,
Expects these cities to complete the work
And drive him back to her God-fearing arms?'
He slyly smiled before he answered me:
'Points seen and taken, words are heard and known,
Though one can ask how you escape naive
Befuddled views when you yourself are young,
And surely ache, mistaken in conception,
From glassy lenses that obstruct a plain
And clear appraisal. She, at least, believes
In something besides herself, or is that the rub?
That one might find a solace, peace of mind,
In all the world's distracting pleasure pits.
This girl would think on you when thinking up,
Who wishes you immortal life as well
As riches, fame and all the rest ordained,
so it has seemed, by Him to you unasked,
For you don't ask for anything from Him,
And yet do curse His name for what He gives.'
And I in strict politeness speak to him,
'I curse what I do please to curse, today,
Tomorrow, or any other day I like.
Let us forget our difference of opinion
For I come not to spit on holy ground
Or spark debates of sword and sorcery
I was invited, was I not, to play
Or was this invitation for my soul
and not my fingers primed to pluck the strings?
You think me small, ill-suited and naive
And yet I smelled conversion round the bend
As I have dealt with it for all my years!
Now where's the money promised? Praise the Lord!'
He hands the envelope to heathen hands.  
'I only pry for your well-being's sake,
For what, and to what end do you embark?
For love of self or vain conceited glory?
That all might know your name and wash your feet?
I worry you've not foundations strong enough
To weather tempting treats and frying fish.
The place might make a meal of your disdain.'
I raised my brows at him for thinking so.
'No need to worry, my mind and will are strong,
And these remarks are needless said to me,
Who hardened under shocks and tribulations
Throughout his young beleagured life in chains.
I've broken free from misery and pain,
From out of shit-stained Southern parables
and on to bright enlightened forward thought!
I am no weak and shaking crow of corn
Or backwards looking hick who soaks these fields.
I am a force of nature! I alone!
I should be feared by Them, and not afraid,
For I have waited long to shake the cages.
Now on! Let's hypnotize the mass' ear,
And raise His name on high for all to hear.'
